DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, before:

# HydroApp Deployment Guide

## Overview
This guide will help you deploy the HydroApp React Native application to TestFlight for iOS testing.

## Prerequisites
- Apple Developer Account
- Expo CLI installed
- EAS CLI installed
- Node.js and npm installed

## Setup Steps

### 1. Install EAS CLI
```bash
npm install -g eas-cli
```

### 2. Login to Expo
```bash
eas login
```

### 3. Configure EAS Build
Update the `eas.json` file with your Apple Developer information:
- Replace `your-apple-id@example.com` with your actual Apple ID
- Replace `your-app-store-connect-app-id` with your App Store Connect App ID
- Replace `your-apple-team-id` with your Apple Team ID

### 4. Build for iOS
```bash
eas build --platform ios
```

### 5. Submit to TestFlight
```bash
eas submit --platform ios
```

## Backend Deployment

### Local Development
```bash
# Start backend server
npm run backend

# Start frontend and backend together
npm run dev
```

### Production Backend
For production deployment, consider using:
- Heroku
- Vercel
- AWS
- Digital Ocean

Update the `API_BASE_URL` in `App.tsx` to point to your production backend.

## Configuration Files

### Environment Variables
Create a `.env` file in the backend directory:
```
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=production
DATABASE_URL=your_production_database_url
```

### iOS Specific Configuration
Update `app.json` with your app details:
```json
{
  "expo": {
    "name": "HydroApp",
    "slug": "hydroapp",
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "ios": {
      "bundleIdentifier": "com.yourcompany.hydroapp"
    }
  }
}
```

## Testing

### Local Testing
1. Start the backend: `npm run backend`
2. Start the frontend: `npm start`
3. Test on iOS Simulator or Android Emulator

### TestFlight Testing
1. Build and submit using EAS
2. Invite testers through App Store Connect
3. Monitor crash reports and feedback

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Backend Connection Issues**: Ensure the backend URL is accessible from the device
2. **Build Failures**: Check iOS certificates and provisioning profiles
3. **Submission Issues**: Verify all required metadata is provided

### Support
For issues with:
- Expo/EAS: Check Expo documentation
- React Native: Check React Native documentation
- Backend: Check Express.js documentation

Commit message:

refactor(config): migrate to environment-driven configuration
Remove hardcoded values from app.json and eas.json, replacing with environment variables for API URLs, CORS origins, and deployment credentials. Update backend CORS logic for flexible origin matching and enhance App.tsx to dynamically resolve API base URL from env or Expo config. Add expo-constants dependency and update documentation to reflect new setup.

BREAKING CHANGE: app.json deleted; use app.config.ts or environment variables for Expo configuration. EAS credentials now required via env vars like APPLE_ID.

DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md, after:

# HydroApp Deployment Guide

## Overview
This guide will help you deploy the HydroApp React Native application to TestFlight for iOS testing.

## Prerequisites
- Apple Developer Account
- Expo CLI installed
- EAS CLI installed
- Node.js and npm installed

## Setup Steps

### 1. Install EAS CLI
```bash
npm install -g eas-cli
```

### 2. Login to Expo
```bash
eas login
```

### 3. Configure EAS Build
Set the following environment variables (locally or in your CI) so credentials are not stored in source control:
- `APPLE_ID`
- `APP_STORE_CONNECT_APP_ID`
- `APPLE_TEAM_ID`

They map to the `${...}` placeholders in `eas.json`. You can set them temporarily when building:
```bash
export APPLE_ID="name@example.com"
export APP_STORE_CONNECT_APP_ID="1234567890"
export APPLE_TEAM_ID="ABCDE12345"
```

### 4. Build for iOS
```bash
eas build --platform ios
```

### 5. Submit to TestFlight
```bash
eas submit --platform ios
```

## Backend Deployment

### Local Development
```bash
# Start backend server
npm run backend

# Start frontend and backend together
npm run dev
```

### Production Backend
For production deployment, consider using:
- Heroku
- Vercel
- AWS
- Digital Ocean

Set `EXPO_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` in your build environment (or `.env.production`) to point to your production backend. The mobile app reads this value automatically.

## Configuration Files

### Environment Variables
Configure `.env` in the project root:
```
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=production
EXPO_PUBLIC_API_PORT=3001
EXPO_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com/api
CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=https://app.example.com,https://studio.expo.dev
```

### iOS Specific Configuration
Provide app identifiers either via `.env` or by editing `app.config.ts`:
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_IOS_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER`
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_ANDROID_PACKAGE`
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_APP_NAME`
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_APP_SLUG`
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_APP_VERSION`

## Testing

### Local Testing
1. Start the backend: `npm run backend`
2. Start the frontend: `npm start`
3. Test on iOS Simulator or Android Emulator

### TestFlight Testing
1. Build and submit using EAS
2. Invite testers through App Store Connect
3. Monitor crash reports and feedback

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues
1. **Backend Connection Issues**: Ensure the backend URL is accessible from the device
2. **Build Failures**: Check iOS certificates and provisioning profiles
3. **Submission Issues**: Verify all required metadata is provided

### Support
For issues with:
- Expo/EAS: Check Expo documentation
- React Native: Check React Native documentation
- Backend: Check Express.js documentation
