README.md, before:

# HydroApp

A full-stack React Native application built with Expo and an Express.js backend. This README explains setup, development, API usage, and deployment to the Apple App Store (TestFlight/App Store).

## Features
- 📱 React Native (Expo, TypeScript)
- 🔧 Express.js backend with REST API
- 🔄 Simple in-memory data store with CRUD endpoints
- 🎨 UI components via React Native Paper
- 🧭 Navigation via React Navigation stack
- 🌐 Axios-based API client with error handling

## Requirements
- Node.js v16+ (recommended v18+)
- npm (or yarn)
- iOS Simulator (Xcode) or Android Emulator
- Windows 10/11 or macOS 10.15+ for development

## Cross-Platform Compatibility
HydroApp is optimized for both Windows and macOS development environments:

### Windows Development
- Use `npm run dev:windows` for concurrent backend/frontend development
- Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) recommended for best experience
- PowerShell or Command Prompt compatible

### macOS Development
- Use `npm run dev:macos` for concurrent backend/frontend development
- Native terminal support with optimized performance
- Xcode required for iOS development

### Mobile Platforms
- **iOS**: iOS Simulator (macOS only) or physical devices
- **Android**: Android Studio Emulator or physical devices
- **Web**: Modern browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)

## Getting Started

1) Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

2) Start backend and frontend (three options)
- Separate processes:
```bash
npm run backend    # starts Express on http://localhost:3000
npm start          # starts Expo dev server
```
- Concurrently in one command (cross-platform):
```bash
npm run dev
```
- Platform-specific concurrent commands:
```bash
npm run dev:windows    # Windows-optimized
npm run dev:macos      # macOS-optimized
```

3) Launch on a device/simulator
- iOS simulator:
```bash
npm run ios
```
- Android emulator:
```bash
npm run android
```
- Web (Expo web):
```bash
npm run web
```

4) Connect Expo Go or simulator
- Scan the QR shown in the terminal (Expo Metro) on a physical device, or press "i"/"a" to open iOS/Android simulators.

## Project Structure
```
HydroApp/
├── App.tsx                # Main app component (frontend)
├── backend/
│   └── server.js          # Express server (backend)
├── assets/                # Icons & images
├── index.ts               # Entry file for Expo
├── app.json               # Expo config (name, bundle id, splash, etc.)
├── eas.json               # EAS build configuration
├── package.json           # Scripts & dependencies
├── .env                   # Backend environment vars
└── tsconfig.json          # TypeScript config
```

## Environment Configuration
Create `.env` in the project root (already created) and ensure values are set:
```
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=development
CORS_ORIGIN=http://localhost:19000
```
Note: Adjust `CORS_ORIGIN` to match your Expo dev URL when testing on device (e.g., http://<your-local-ip>:19000).

## API Endpoints (Backend)
Base URL: `http://localhost:3000`

- `GET /` → server status
- `GET /api/health` → health check
- `GET /api/data` → list items
- `POST /api/data` → add item

Example usage:
```bash
# Health
curl http://localhost:3000/api/health

# Get data
curl http://localhost:3000/api/data

# Add data
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/data \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"name":"Item X","value":123}'
```

## Frontend Integration
`App.tsx` uses Axios to call the backend at `http://localhost:3000`. If you test on a physical device, replace `localhost` with your computer’s LAN IP (e.g., `http://192.168.X.X:3000`).

## Deployment (Apple App Store)
We use EAS (Expo Application Services) for building and submission.

1) Log in to Expo
```bash
npx eas login
```

2) Update `app.json`
- Set `ios.bundleIdentifier` to your bundle ID (e.g., `com.yourcompany.hydroapp`)
- Ensure `slug` and other metadata match your App Store Connect app record

3) Build (production)
```bash
npm run build:ios
# or
npx eas build --platform ios --profile production
```

4) Submit to App Store Connect
```bash
npx eas submit --platform ios --profile production
```

Alternatively, run the guided script:
```bash
./deploy-to-app-store.sh
```
It will check EAS, verify login, build, and optionally submit.

For detailed steps, see:
- `APPLE_STORE_DEPLOYMENT.md`
- `DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md`
- `DEPLOYMENT_SUMMARY.md`

## Troubleshooting

### Cross-Platform Issues

#### Windows
- **WSL Recommended**: Use Windows Subsystem for Linux for best development experience
- **Path Issues**: If you encounter path-related errors, ensure Node.js is properly installed and accessible
- **Permission Errors**: Run terminal as Administrator if you encounter permission issues
- **Network Issues**: Ensure Windows Firewall allows Node.js and Expo connections

#### macOS
- **Permission Issues**: Allow terminal to access network connections in System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- **Xcode Issues**: Ensure Xcode command line tools are installed: `xcode-select --install`
- **iOS Simulator Issues**: Reset simulator if experiencing persistent issues: `xcodebuild -runFirstLaunch`

#### Common Issues (All Platforms)
- **Port Conflicts**: Ensure port 3000 is available for the backend server
- **Network Issues**: On physical devices, use your computer's LAN IP instead of localhost
- **CORS Issues**: The backend includes enhanced CORS configuration for cross-platform compatibility
- **Expo Issues**: Clear Expo cache if experiencing issues: `npx expo install --fix`
- **Dependency Issues**: Clear npm cache if needed: `npm cache clean --force`

### Development Issues
- Expo warns some packages should be updated for best compatibility. Follow Expo's suggestions for `react-native-safe-area-context`, `react-native-screens`, and `react-native-gesture-handler` versions if needed.
- On device testing, ensure your phone can reach your computer's LAN IP and firewall allows connections to `PORT=3000`.
- If EAS is not found globally, use `npx eas ...` (script handles this).

### Build Issues
- **iOS Build Issues**: Ensure Xcode and iOS Simulator are properly configured
- **Android Build Issues**: Ensure Android Studio and emulators are properly set up
- **Web Build Issues**: Ensure all web dependencies are properly installed

## Technologies
- Frontend: Expo, React Native, TypeScript
- Backend: Node.js, Express
- UI: React Native Paper
- Navigation: React Navigation
- HTTP: Axios
- Build & Deploy: EAS (Expo Application Services)

## Contributing
1. Fork the repo
2. Create a feature branch
3. Implement changes with tests
4. Open a PR

## License
MIT

## Support
Open an issue or contact the team.

Commit message:

refactor(config): migrate to environment-driven configuration
Remove hardcoded values from app.json and eas.json, replacing with environment variables for API URLs, CORS origins, and deployment credentials. Update backend CORS logic for flexible origin matching and enhance App.tsx to dynamically resolve API base URL from env or Expo config. Add expo-constants dependency and update documentation to reflect new setup.

BREAKING CHANGE: app.json deleted; use app.config.ts or environment variables for Expo configuration. EAS credentials now required via env vars like APPLE_ID.

README.md, after:

# HydroApp

A full-stack React Native application built with Expo and an Express.js backend. This README explains setup, development, API usage, and deployment to the Apple App Store (TestFlight/App Store).

## Features
- 📱 React Native (Expo, TypeScript)
- 🔧 Express.js backend with REST API
- 🔄 Simple in-memory data store with CRUD endpoints
- 🎨 UI components via React Native Paper
- 🧭 Navigation via React Navigation stack
- 🌐 Axios-based API client with error handling

## Requirements
- Node.js v16+ (recommended v18+)
- npm (or yarn)
- iOS Simulator (Xcode) or Android Emulator
- Windows 10/11 or macOS 10.15+ for development

## Cross-Platform Compatibility
HydroApp is optimized for both Windows and macOS development environments:

### Windows Development
- Use `npm run dev:windows` for concurrent backend/frontend development
- Windows Subsystem for Linux (WSL) recommended for best experience
- PowerShell or Command Prompt compatible

### macOS Development
- Use `npm run dev:macos` for concurrent backend/frontend development
- Native terminal support with optimized performance
- Xcode required for iOS development

### Mobile Platforms
- **iOS**: iOS Simulator (macOS only) or physical devices
- **Android**: Android Studio Emulator or physical devices
- **Web**: Modern browsers (Chrome, Firefox, Safari, Edge)

## Getting Started

1) Install dependencies
```bash
npm install
```

2) Start backend and frontend (three options)
- Separate processes:
```bash
npm run backend    # starts Express on http://localhost:3000
npm start          # starts Expo dev server
```
- Concurrently in one command (cross-platform):
```bash
npm run dev
```
- Platform-specific concurrent commands:
```bash
npm run dev:windows    # Windows-optimized
npm run dev:macos      # macOS-optimized
```

3) Launch on a device/simulator
- iOS simulator:
```bash
npm run ios
```
- Android emulator:
```bash
npm run android
```
- Web (Expo web):
```bash
npm run web
```

4) Connect Expo Go or simulator
- Scan the QR shown in the terminal (Expo Metro) on a physical device, or press "i"/"a" to open iOS/Android simulators.

## Project Structure
```
HydroApp/
├── App.tsx                # Main app component (frontend)
├── backend/
│   └── server.js          # Express server (backend)
├── assets/                # Icons & images
├── index.ts               # Entry file for Expo
├── app.config.ts          # Expo config driven by environment variables
├── eas.json               # EAS build configuration
├── package.json           # Scripts & dependencies
├── .env                   # Backend environment vars
└── tsconfig.json          # TypeScript config
```

## Environment Configuration
Create `.env` in the project root (already added) and ensure values are set:
```
PORT=3000
NODE_ENV=development
EXPO_PUBLIC_API_PORT=3001
# Optional: point to remote API when deploying
# EXPO_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL=https://api.example.com/api
CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS=http://localhost:19000,http://localhost:19006,http://localhost:8081,exp://127.0.0.1:19000
```
Notes:
- Adjust `CORS_ALLOWED_ORIGINS` to include any Expo dev URLs or production domains you expect.
- `EXPO_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` is injected into the mobile app at build time; omit it for local development to fall back to your machine's backend.

## API Endpoints (Backend)
Base URL: `http://localhost:3000`

- `GET /` → server status
- `GET /api/health` → health check
- `GET /api/data` → list items
- `POST /api/data` → add item

Example usage:
```bash
# Health
curl http://localhost:3000/api/health

# Get data
curl http://localhost:3000/api/data

# Add data
curl -X POST http://localhost:3000/api/data \
  -H 'Content-Type: application/json' \
  -d '{"name":"Item X","value":123}'
```

## Frontend Integration
`App.tsx` reads `EXPO_PUBLIC_API_BASE_URL` (or the Expo config `extra.apiBaseUrl`) to determine which backend to call. Without that variable it falls back to `http://<local-ip>:3001/api`, automatically choosing `10.0.2.2` for Android emulators. Override the value in `.env` or your CI environment when building for production.

## Deployment (Apple App Store)
We use EAS (Expo Application Services) for building and submission.

1) Log in to Expo
```bash
npx eas login
```

2) Update `app.config.ts` or provide environment variables
- Set `EXPO_PUBLIC_IOS_BUNDLE_IDENTIFIER`, `EXPO_PUBLIC_ANDROID_PACKAGE`, and `EXPO_PUBLIC_APP_NAME` in `.env` or your CI environment
- Ensure `EXPO_PUBLIC_APP_SLUG`, `EXPO_PUBLIC_APP_VERSION`, and `EAS_PROJECT_ID` match your App Store Connect record

3) Build (production)
```bash
npm run build:ios
# or
npx eas build --platform ios --profile production
```

4) Submit to App Store Connect
```bash
npx eas submit --platform ios --profile production
```

Alternatively, run the guided script:
```bash
./deploy-to-app-store.sh
```
It will check EAS, verify login, build, and optionally submit.

For detailed steps, see:
- `APPLE_STORE_DEPLOYMENT.md`
- `DEPLOYMENT_GUIDE.md`
- `DEPLOYMENT_SUMMARY.md`

## Troubleshooting

### Cross-Platform Issues

#### Windows
- **WSL Recommended**: Use Windows Subsystem for Linux for best development experience
- **Path Issues**: If you encounter path-related errors, ensure Node.js is properly installed and accessible
- **Permission Errors**: Run terminal as Administrator if you encounter permission issues
- **Network Issues**: Ensure Windows Firewall allows Node.js and Expo connections

#### macOS
- **Permission Issues**: Allow terminal to access network connections in System Preferences > Security & Privacy
- **Xcode Issues**: Ensure Xcode command line tools are installed: `xcode-select --install`
- **iOS Simulator Issues**: Reset simulator if experiencing persistent issues: `xcodebuild -runFirstLaunch`

#### Common Issues (All Platforms)
- **Port Conflicts**: Ensure port 3000 is available for the backend server
- **Network Issues**: On physical devices, use your computer's LAN IP instead of localhost
- **CORS Issues**: The backend includes enhanced CORS configuration for cross-platform compatibility
- **Expo Issues**: Clear Expo cache if experiencing issues: `npx expo install --fix`
- **Dependency Issues**: Clear npm cache if needed: `npm cache clean --force`

### Development Issues
- Expo warns some packages should be updated for best compatibility. Follow Expo's suggestions for `react-native-safe-area-context`, `react-native-screens`, and `react-native-gesture-handler` versions if needed.
- On device testing, ensure your phone can reach your computer's LAN IP and firewall allows connections to `PORT=3000`.
- If EAS is not found globally, use `npx eas ...` (script handles this).

### Build Issues
- **iOS Build Issues**: Ensure Xcode and iOS Simulator are properly configured
- **Android Build Issues**: Ensure Android Studio and emulators are properly set up
- **Web Build Issues**: Ensure all web dependencies are properly installed

## Technologies
- Frontend: Expo, React Native, TypeScript
- Backend: Node.js, Express
- UI: React Native Paper
- Navigation: React Navigation
- HTTP: Axios
- Build & Deploy: EAS (Expo Application Services)

## Contributing
1. Fork the repo
2. Create a feature branch
3. Implement changes with tests
4. Open a PR

## License
MIT

## Support
Open an issue or contact the team.
